# Kate Edwards

<!--
**Kate-Edwards3802/Kate-Edwards3802** is a ✨ _special_ ✨ repository because its `README.md` (this file) appears on your GitHub profile.
-->

**Distinction Portfolio at the University of Denver - Daniels Business College
<br>Major: Business Information and Analytics
<br>Minor: Computer Science**

## Resume, Linkedin, Email
https://www.linkedin.com/in/kate-edwards-du/
<br>katieedwards2828@gmail.com

## Communication and interpersonal effectiveness
**Case Competitions**
<br>Over my time at DU I participated in 3 group case competitions and placed 3rd twice. My presentation skills grew immensely over this time. While crafting a solution to the problem was important it was also important to clearly, concisely, and persuasively present the solution. You had to clearly coordinate and communicate with your team members to ensure that their sections flowed smoothly into yours. I learned small things like to highlight the sections of a graph you are trying to draw attention to. I learned better passoffs between team members. Most importantly, I learned how to practice a presentation until I had the right points I wanted without memorizing a script. This enabled me to say everything I wanted while avoiding the pitfalls that come from memorizing a speech. While public speaking has always made me nervous, I feel much more confident after participating in these case competitions. The competitions increased the pressure because I knew there was money at stake and my teammates were relying on me. I learned to manage stress and to successfully present despite the additional nerves the setting brought up. Competing in these stressful settings has taught me to overcome my nervousness so I can present effectively.

**Internship at Deloitte**
<br>My internship this summer exposed me to typical corporate forms of communication. I sat in on small group planning meetings and saw how they were approached. I initiated agendas for these meetings to make sure everyone was able to cover the points they wanted to and nothing was forgotten. One of the things that struck me most about these meetings was how the first 5 minutes would typically be devoted to basic chit chat so that you truly felt like you were friends with your coworkers. This meant that disagreements were easier to resolve and no one felt afraid to bring up ideas or make mistakes in front of the team. I also attended and put together the slide deck for a 250+ person all hands meeting. While I was leading the icebreaker for this global meeting we weren’t getting many responses so I chose to ask a few specific colleagues about how the icebreaker applied in their part of the globe and got some interesting answers that sparked discussion. I also had many email chains with senior leadership as I was trying to collect information for a central proposal repository. From all of these email chains I learned how to match other people’s email styles. I also worked on being more concise in my emails. My communication grew a lot from this experience. I learned to overcommunicate rather than undercommunicate. It was helpful for me to give regular, unprompted updates on my progress to leadership. By having open, honest, and regular communication my colleagues were able to trust me.

**Lifeguarding**
<br>Throughout parts of high school and college I worked in various lifeguarding roles. I started by lifeguarding at the public pool and was later asked if I wanted to get a separate open water certification as a lifeguard at our local lake. While working as a lifeguard it became evident quickly that everyone needed to work as a team. We would often have zones that would overlap and needed to communicate who would handle any arising issues. When there was an emergency situation we would need to quickly and clearly communicate what role we would play so that all necessary roles were covered and nothing was forgotten. When I transitioned to open water lifeguarding, I was sometimes on a floating obstacle course 100 meters from land. I could only communicate with other guards through the radio. This posed challenges as we were unable to read each other’s nonverbal cues and couldn’t tell if they had received our message. If communication wasn’t clear the system could fall apart. Lifeguarding was my introduction to working as part of a team and it quickly became clear that communication was critical to properly respond to high stress situations. 
As a lifeguard I also worked with a co-instructor to teach children swimming. I taught everything from basic swimming skills to diving. Having been a competitive swimmer since middle school it took skill to be able to explain concepts that were second nature to me in a way that the kids could understand. I formed relationships and built trust with the kids I taught which was important. This trust helped earn me their respect. It was rewarding to see their skills grow and their character mature.


## Community Engagement and Leadership
**Stepping in when needed**
<br>I think one of the most important forms of leadership is being able to recognize when a leader is needed and rising to fill that occasion. During my Freshman year of college my roommate told me she had taken too many pills. My lifeguard training immediately kicked in and I immediately suggested we go to the ER which she refused. As she was completely coherent and appeared to be okay I started asking questions to get a better understanding of the urgency of the situation. I asked her what she took, how much and when. After assessing that it was at that moment a non-life threatening but still serious situation I chose to get in touch with one of her close friends who lived a minute away to see if she could convince her to go to the ER. Together we were able to convince her that she needed to go to the ER. While this likely wasn’t the perfect reaction to the problem I’m proud that I was able to react with calm composure to a situation I had never faced and never thought I would have to face. When I ran into obstacles I persevered and reached out to the right person to help me overcome that challenge. Sometimes you are forced into leadership in a situation that you are unprepared for and unfamiliar with. It’s important to be able to maintain a level head, know when you need help and how to get it, and react with compassion. I’m glad my roommate was able to get the help she needed and that I was able to facilitate that for her. It’s something that will stick with me for the rest of my life.

**Code advantage job**
<br>I had the opportunity to teach some incredible kids basic coding concepts. I acted as an instructor with another co-instructor for a class of up to 20 K-2 kids at a local charter school. As I got to know these kids I was quickly impressed by their perseverance, resilience, and curiosity. While I found it important to teach them basic coding skills it became evident that more than anything they just need a steady and positive influence in their life. They would tell me unprompted stories about messy divorce cases their parents were going through or trouble they were having with other kids in school. They trusted me to listen to them and to help as best as I could. Being someone who is open and honest as well as consistently available and sympathetic made me a good leader in their eyes. When they got into disputes in class they would trust me enough to tell me what it was really about. They would proudly show me what they had learned in class that day. Every day when I would show up some of them would come up and hug my legs. Being able to make a positive impact as a leader can present you with tough situations but it can also be deeply rewarding. Being able to make a positive impact on those kids' lives was valuable to me as well as them. I found that it’s important as a leader to be someone that people feel they can approach and tell the truth to.

**PLP**
<br>During my time at DU I was also able to live with the pioneer leadership community as well as take leadership classes through the program. My favorite lesson from my time in these leadership lessons was that it’s important to make sure you understand other people’s definitions. Lots of disagreements end up being misunderstandings. For example when discussing if it’s okay to use a banana one individual could say yes thinking that the unripe banana is perfect for banana bread while one person could say no thinking it isn’t good to eat on its own. If neither person explained their reasoning or what they are considering using the banana for then both people would consider the other person to be crazy. It’s important to fully define the question to avoid miscommunications. While I learned a lot in the PLP program and met a lot of people I’m still friendly with to this day in the program I didn’t feel the program suited my style of quieter leadership so I left at the end of my Freshman year. Despite this I learned a lot of lessons in my time at the program from how to break tough news to how to avoid misunderstandings. 


## Ethical Decision Making
**Biomedical Ethics Class**
<br>Ethics is a subject where most people think they will just intuitively know the difference between right and wrong. My biomedical ethics class quickly proved that concept wrong. We tackled many different topics with stories and logical opinions from people on both sides of an issue. We tackled classic problems like the trolly problem and some of it’s many different iterations to whether their is ethical difference between Physican Assisted Suicide and Death with Dignity and whether either are ever permissible. When it comes to ethics, biomedical ethics is often the most divisive and emotionally fraught topic as it can have to do with life and death. This was a class I would find myself thinking about when doing chores or bringing up in conversations with people whose opinions I valued highly. This class made me think because we were always provided with both sides of the story and sometimes it could be hard to tell what was the right decision. Our ethics are a core part of who we are so it’s especially hard and thought provoking when we are presented with a question that isn’t immediately clear to us what we should do. I found it fascinating to hear everyone’s different perspectives and ways of thinking of a problem in this class and it was a fabulous introduction to the ethics I would cover in my time at DU.

**Ethics Bootcamp**
<br>While I had dual enrollment credit for DU’s Legal studies class I attended the Ethics bootcamp that is mandatory as part of that class. In this experience I heard many of DU’s law professors speak on ethical dilemmas. They discussed how abandoning your ethics in a professional setting could land you in jail, how “just this once” almost never remains at just that once, and how our ethics are critical to who we are as a person. Professor Ciocchetti of the Business Ethics and Legal Studies department gave us a speech on why ethics matters that I thought was well said. He talked about why we should do the right thing even when no one is looking. One of his most insightful stories was about how who puts away shopping carts after using them can truly tell you a lot about them as a person. No one ever rewards you for putting away a shopping cart you do it because it’s the right thing to do. I think this notion is especially interesting because during my travels to other countries there are some places where you must input a coin to get a shopping cart and you only get the coin back when you return the cart. While this says quite clearly that not everyone does the right thing for the sake of it being the right thing, most people do. I found Dr. Ciocchetti’s speech really impactful because it put into words why we as humans do the right thing when there is no clear gain to us. It’s important to me to contribute to the world by being someone who does the right thing just because it’s right.



## Global/Intercultural Competence
**Growing up in a small mountain town**
<br>Coming from a small mountain town I found a different type of diversity at DU than I’d ever experienced before. Growing up in Durango, there were unexpected areas of diversity. I had a piano teacher who was of Japanese descent and was also Mormon. There was an Amish community on the outskirts of our town. We also had a Catholic K-8 school. I got to know many people of different religious backgrounds. Going to public school in Durango also forced you to become familiar with people who had backgrounds different from your own. In class there would be people from town and people from the rural surrounding areas. In one of my classes one of my peers missed a test because she was helping her goat give birth. We would have lots of different political views, religious views, and geographical backgrounds all in one classroom. Everyone had to get along somewhat though because the classes were so small. One of my peers' mother was my haircutter, another peer's mother taught me to ride horses, and yet another peer’s mom was my mom’s doctor. Because everyone knew each other we all got along fairly well despite our differences. I believe that growing up in this type of setting set me up well to further embrace diversity in my college experience. From a young age I learned that different backgrounds and experiences could influence us to have different viewpoints. These views almost always had logic behind them if people sat down and had a discussion. These different viewpoints were a strength because other people would bring up points we hadn’t even considered but were obvious to them given their background. 

**Expanding my experience with diversity in college**
<br>While the small town I grew up in had lots of diversity in some ways it also lacked some forms of diversity. I was exposed to very little racial diversity growing up and most everyone I met had been born in the US. When I moved up to DU I became friends with someone whose parents had immigrated from India after an arranged marriage. While this background was very different from mine I was honored to be welcomed by her family. Her mother took the time to teach me and some of our other friends how to cook Indian dishes. She even gifted us with some spices from her cabinet from India. When Ramadan came around  one of their family friends gave us Henna. Having her family be so kind and welcoming had a big impact on me. I was able to discuss with her parts of her background and what she agreed with and didn’t agree with which was deeply insightful for me. Being welcomed by her as well as other friends into their cultures helped me not only understand them better but also understand my view of the world better. Seeing the way others live their life and their values can help guide your own.

**Study Abroad Experience in Oxford**
<br>Between my Sophomore and Junior year I chose to spend the summer studying abroad at Oxford. Coming from a town where the nearest city with over 50,000 people was 3.5 hours away and in a different state to landing at London Heathrow, the main base for London, a city with 9 million, was intimidating to say the least. Add to that that I needed to use public transportation to reach Oxford, something that was virtually nonexistent in my home town, and I knew I would need to be adaptable. I came over time to be proficient enough at using public transportation that I used it to travel to Paris a week before the 2024 Olympics. I was able to adapt to the large cities that were conveniently located nearby. While I believe that adaptation to other cultures is important to keeping an open mind, one of the most interesting things about my time at Oxford was the teaching style.
I had the full Oxford experience in that we were taught in small dialogue focused classrooms. My class was my Oxford professor as well as two other students. We would come to class having read the necessary material and with our basic thoughts and sometimes a presentation on the material and then we would spend class discussing. I learned that that method of teaching had been around for centuries. Getting to experience this different format of teaching had its benefits and drawbacks. At Oxford I learned a lot about the history of Great Britain and France which I was able to weave into the history that the US is based on as well. Being able to see how their culture had influenced the country in which I grew up and where we had strayed from their legal systems and government setup said a lot to me about the US.


**Summer experience at Deloitte**
<br>After continuing to learn more about different cultures and backgrounds through my college experience I was able to apply these learnings in a work setting during my 2025 summer internship at Deloitte. I was privileged enough to be able to work on a very global team.While this presented the typical workplace challenges of colleagues being in different places like trying to find a time to schedule a zoom call it also sparked additional learning. We were able to connect and learn about each other during work. I learned that people in Bern Switzerland will sometimes float down the river from work to home as a means of transportation. Our moments of connection required grace on both of our parts. Instead of a spelling error in an email meaning someone didn’t take the time to double check their email it was often simply do to the language the email was written in being in a secondary language. Sometimes emails were forwarded to me in another language but my colleague would take the time to give me a short summary of the important points in English at the top. Working together took thinking ahead about other’s primary languages and time zones and offering each other understanding. It also allowed us to bring more opinions to the table which was helpful in making the best decisions.


## Technical Knowledge and Critical Thinking
**Research Class**
During my time at DU I participated in an invite only research class. To get into the class you had to be recommended by a professor. This ended up being one of my favorite classes at DU. In the 10 week quarter, myself and two other students came up with a research question and wrote the equivalent of a research proposal. While we attempted to write a research paper, the data that we would have needed for it wasn’t available. We focused on the question: Is there a connection between the rise in online interest and the frequency of outdoor related injuries? 
This paper required extensive research into previous papers written on similar subjects so that we could ensure our question was unique. It also required lots of revisions and iterations. The process was very informative to learning how to write and read research. In this class I also contributed to weekly research paper discussions. This introduced me to a myriad of different ways to research within the Business Analytics sphere. You can read the paper here: ___

**Experiences with AI**
As a Freshman I had never heard of AI. By the time my Junior year ended it had transformed education. AI is all anyone can talk about. Through my experience, AI can be incredibly helpful but also quite destructive. I’ve seen classmates paste an assignment description into AI and get the entire answer out. This skips all learning. The way I chose to use it though was as an on demand TA. If I had a question about a topic that came up I could ask AI. If I was still confused I could ask for a different style of explanation or for some examples. It was very helpful when I chose to go over tests. I would go through the questions I got wrong and ask AI why my answer was incorrect. Most of the time AI is great at both of these tasks. If I was doing homework late at night I didn’t have to stop and wait for the next day to get a simple question answered. The problem with AI is sometimes it gets something wrong. It would be a great starting point. I could ask it the name of the topic it was explaining and look it up to confirm the information. AI can also come up with solutions you didn’t know existed. For my nonparametric statistics class I had to turn data on a website into an Excel spreadsheet so I could easily analyze it. I asked AI what my options were besides writing the data into an Excel file by hand. It informed me that Python was capable of generating an Excel spreadsheet, which I didn’t know. This allowed me to simply copy paste data into a Python script which then split the text based on tabs and gave me an Excel sheet as an output. This saved me countless hours of boring repetitive work. When AI is used as a tool to easily explain a concept or help you grasp something it can be useful. It’s also helpful when it shows you tools you didn’t know about. AI can be powerful as long as you don’t use it mindlessly.




